DBZ-6532 Debezium Storage documentation (#4771)
debezium/debezium: documentation/modules/ROOT/pages/configuration/storage.adoc

|[[schema-history-internal-kafka-recovery-poll-interval-ms]]<<schema-history-internal-kafka-recovery-poll-interval-ms,`schema.history.internal.kafka.recovery.poll.interval.ms`>>
|100
|The number of milliseconds to wait while polling for persisted data during recovery.

|[[schema-history-internal-kafka-recovery-attempts]]<<schema-history-internal-kafka-recovery-attempts,`schema.history.internal.kafka.recovery.attempts`>>
|100
|The number of attempts in a row that no data are returned from Kafka before recover completes. The maximum amount of time to wait after receiving no data is (recovery.attempts) x (recovery.poll.interval.ms).

|[[schema-history-internal-kafka-query-timeout-ms]]<<schema-history-internal-kafka-query-timeout-ms,`schema.history.internal.kafka.query.timeout.ms`>>
|3
|The number of milliseconds to wait while fetching cluster information using Kafka admin client.

|[[schema-history-internal-kafka-create-timeout-ms]]<<schema-history-internal-kafka-create-timeout-ms,`schema.history.internal.kafka.create.timeout.ms`>>
|30
|The number of milliseconds to wait while create kafka history topic using Kafka admin client.

> |===

Author: We need to add pass-thorough properties too, for more details for example https://debezium.io/documentation/reference/3.1/connectors/mysql.html#debezium-mysql-pass-through-database-history-properties-for-configuring-producer-and-consumer-clients

|[[jdbc-offset-url]]<<jdbc-offset-url, `offset.storage.jdbc.connection.url`>>
|No default
|JDBC driver connection string to connect to the database.

|[[jdbc-offset-user]]<<jdbc-offset-user, `offset.storage.jdbc.connection.user`>>
|No default
|(Optional) Username of the database which will be used to access the database storage.

|[[jdbc-offset-password]]<<jdbc-offset-password, `offset.storage.jdbc.connection.password`>>
|No default
|(Optional) Password of the database which will be used to access the database storage.

|[[wait-retry-delay-ms]]<<wait-retry-delay-ms, `offset.storage.jdbc.connection.wait.retry.delay.ms`>>
|3 seconds
|(Optional) Delay of retry on wait for connection failure.

|[[retry-max-attempts]]<<retry-max-attempts, `offset.storage.jdbc.connection.retry.max.attempts`>>
|5
|(Optional) Maximum number of retry attempts before giving up.

|[[jdbc-offset-table-name]]<<jdbc-offset-table-name, `offset.storage.jdbc.table.name`>>
|`debezium_offset_storage`
|The name of the table to which the offsets will be stored.

|[[jdbc-offset-table-ddl]]<<jdbc-offset-table-ddl, `offset.storage.jdbc.table.ddl`>>

> |link:https://raw.githubusercontent.com/debezium/debezium/main/debezium-storage/debezium-storage-jdbc/src/main/java/io/debezium/storage/jdbc/offset/JdbcOffsetBackingStoreConfig.java[source code]

Author: I'd prefer a separate section under the options table that would should DDLs instead of links to the source code

|No default
|(Optional) Username of the database which will be used to access the database storage.

|[[jdbc-history-schema-history-password]]<<jdbc-history-schema-history-password, `schema.history.internal.jdbc.connection.password`>>
|No default
|(Optional) Password of the database which will be used to access the database storage.

|[[jdbc-history-wait-retry-delay-ms]]<<jdbc-history-wait-retry-delay-ms, `schema.history.internal.jdbc.connection.retry.delay.ms`>>
|3 seconds
|(Optional) Delay of retry on wait for connection failure.

|[[jdbc-history-retry-max-attempts]]<<jdbc-history-retry-max-attempts, `schema.history.internal.jdbc.connection.retry.max.attempts`>>
|5
|(Optional) Maximum number of retry attempts before giving up.

|[[jdbc-history-schema-history-table-name]]<<jdbc-history-schema-history-table-name, `schema.history.internal.jdbc.table.name`>>
|`debezium_database_history`
|The name of the table to which the history will be stored.

|[[jdbc-history-schema-history-table-ddl]]<<jdbc-history-schema-history-table-ddl, `schema.history.internal.jdbc.table.ddl`>>

> |link:https://raw.githubusercontent.com/debezium/debezium/main/debezium-storage/debezium-storage-jdbc/src/main/java/io/debezium/storage/jdbc/history/JdbcSchemaHistoryConfig.java[source code]

Author: I'd prefer a separate section under the options table that would should DDLs instead of links to the source code

In addition to it some of the connectors (MySQL, SQL Server, Db2, Oracle) require an additional storage to record the history of schema evolution, so-called internal schema history.

The offset store is provided automatically for the deployments inside the Kafka Connect runtime:

* Kafka offset store for Kafka Connect distributed
* File offset store for Kafka Connect standalone

If a connector is run either in xref:development/engine.adoc[Debezium Engine] or xref:operations/debezium-server.adoc[Debezium Server] then the offset store must be explicitly configured.
The internal schema history is configured in all cases via connector configuration options.

== Kafka

Debezium can use Kafka to store its state, including source offsets, schema history. Offsets are stored in a Kafka topic (e.g., `connect-offsets`) via the `KafkaOffsetBackingStore`, ensuring connectors resume from the correct position after restarts. Schema history is saved in a separate compacted topic (e.g., `schema-changes.inventory`).

=== Offset Store

[cols="35%a,10%a,55%a",options="header"]
|===
|Property
|Default
|Description

|[[offset-storage-kafka]]<<offset-storage-kafka,`offset.storage`>>
|No default

> |Must be set to `org.apache.kafka.connect.storage.KafkaOffsetBackingStore`.

Reviewer: If this and similar properties have required values, can they be coded to carry the appropriate defaults?

|[[offset-storage-topic]]<<offset-storage-topic,`offset.storage.topic`>>
|No default
|Defines the Kafka topic where offsets will be stored. It's essential that this topic is configured with log compaction enabled to retain the latest offset information.

|[[offset-storage-partitions]]<<offset-storage-partitions,`offset.storage.partitions`>>
|25
|Indicates the number of partitions for the offset storage topic. This should align with your Kafka cluster's partitioning strategy.

|[[offset-storage-replication-factor]]<<offset-storage-replication-factor,`offset.storage.replication.factor`>>
|3
|Sets the replication factor for the offset storage topic, ensuring fault tolerance by replicating data across multiple brokers.

|===

=== Internal schema history store

[cols="35%a,10%a,55%a",options="header"]
|===
|Property
|Default
|Description

|[[schema-history-internal-kafka]]<<schema-history-internal-kafka,`schema.history.internal`>>
|No default
|Must be set to `io.debezium.storage.kafka.history.KafkaSchemaHistory`.

> 

Reviewer: If this and similar properties have required values, can they be coded to carry the appropriate defaults?

Reviewer 2: The [same](https://github.com/debezium/debezium/pull/4771/files#r2045071463) as for the `offset` we actually don't have a default value for `schema.history.internal`. Maybe a correct value could be `MemorySchemaHistory`? WDYK @jpechane

Author: Again, this is selection to choose the right storage so there can't be sensible default.

|30
|The number of milliseconds to wait while create kafka history topic using Kafka admin client.

|[[schema-history-internal-producer]]<<schema-history-internal-producer,`schema.history.internal.producer.*`>>
|No Default
|Pass-through properties prefix for configuring how producer client interact with schema history topics.

|[[schema-history-internal-consumer]]<<schema-history-internal-consumer,`schema.history.internal.consumer.*`>>
|No Default
|Pass-through properties prefix for configuring how consumer client interact with schema history topics.

|===

== File

It's possible to persist the position (offsets) of the connector in a local file on disk. This allows Debezium to resume from where it left off after a restart. It's simple, fast, and ideal for single-node applications or testing scenarios.

=== Offset Store

[cols="35%a,10%a,55%a",options="header"]
|===
|Property
|Default
|Description

|[[offset-storage-file]]<<offset-storage-file,`offset.storage`>>
|No default
|Must be set to `org.apache.kafka.connect.storage.FileOffsetBackingStore`

> 

Reviewer: If this and similar properties have required values, can they be coded to carry the appropriate defaults?

|[[offset-storage-file-filename]]<<offset-storage-file-filename,`offset.storage.file.filename`>>
|No default
|Path to the file where Debezium stores source offsets.

|[[offset-flush-interval-ms]]<<offset-flush-interval-ms,`offset.flush.interval.ms`>>
|6000ms
|Interval in milliseconds to flush the current offset state to the file.

|===

=== Internal schema history store

[cols="35%a,10%a,55%a",options="header"]
|===
|Property
|Default
|Description

|[[schema-history-internal-file]]<<schema-history-internal-file,`schema.history.internal`>>
|No default

> |Must be set to `io.debezium.storage.file.history.FileSchemaHistory`

Reviewer: If this and similar properties have required values, can they be coded to carry the appropriate defaults?

|[[schema-history-internal-file-file]]<<schema-history-internal-file-file,`schema.history.internal.file`>>
|No default
|The path to the file that will be used to record the database schema history`

|===

== Memory

`MemoryOffsetBackingStore` is a volatile, in-memory store used by Debezium Embedded to track source offsets. It keeps the offset state only during the application's runtime and loses it on shutdown or crash. It's ideal for testing or short-lived tasks but not suitable for production where offset persistence is needed.

=== Offset Store

[cols="35%a,10%a,55%a",options="header"]
|===
|Property
|Default
|Description

|[[offset-storage-memory]]<<offset-storage-memory,`offset.storage`>>
|No default
|Must be set to `org.apache.kafka.connect.storage.MemoryOffsetBackingStore`

> 

Reviewer: If this and similar properties have required values, can they be coded to carry the appropriate defaults?

Reviewer 2: Actually I don't know what could be the right default. Maybe the `MemoryOffsetBackingStore` but actually the code doesn't have a default value. WDYT @jpechane?

Author: No, they can't. This is exactly the way how you choose which storage do you use.

|===

=== Internal schema history store

[cols="35%a,10%a,55%a",options="header"]
|===
|Property
|Default
|Description

|[[schema-history-internal-memory]]<<schema-history-internal-memory,`schema.history.internal`>>
|No default
|Must be set to `io.debezium.relational.history.MemorySchemaHistory`

|===

== JDBC
The store uses arbitrary relational database to store the data for which an appropriate link:https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/JDBC_driver[JDBC driver] is provided.
Either the source database can be used as the storage or any other database.

The users either use the default pre-configured DML and DDL statements or can override them with their own either for database dialect compatibility or to tailor them to their use case.

=== Offset Store

[cols="35%a,10%a,55%a",options="header"]
|===
|Property
|Default
|Description

|[[jdbc-offset-type]]<<jdbc-offset-type, `offset.storage`>>
|No default
|Must be set to `io.debezium.storage.jdbc.offset.JdbcOffsetBackingStore`.

> 

Reviewer: If this and similar properties have required values, can they be coded to carry the appropriate defaults?

|[[jdbc-offset-url]]<<jdbc-offset-url, `offset.storage.jdbc.connection.url`>>
|No default
|JDBC driver connection string to connect to the database.

|[[jdbc-offset-user]]<<jdbc-offset-user, `offset.storage.jdbc.connection.user`>>
|No default
|(Optional) Username of the database which will be used to access the database storage.

|[[jdbc-offset-password]]<<jdbc-offset-password, `offset.storage.jdbc.connection.password`>>
|No default
|(Optional) Password of the database which will be used to access the database storage.

|[[wait-retry-delay-ms]]<<wait-retry-delay-ms, `offset.storage.jdbc.connection.wait.retry.delay.ms`>>
|3 seconds
|(Optional) Delay of retry on wait for connection failure.

|[[retry-max-attempts]]<<retry-max-attempts, `offset.storage.jdbc.connection.retry.max.attempts`>>
|5
|(Optional) Maximum number of retry attempts before giving up.

|[[jdbc-offset-table-name]]<<jdbc-offset-table-name, `offset.storage.jdbc.table.name`>>
|`debezium_offset_storage`
|The name of the table to which the offsets will be stored.

|[[jdbc-offset-table-ddl]]<<jdbc-offset-table-ddl, `offset.storage.jdbc.table.ddl`>>

> |<<jdbc-offset-table-ddl-default, `see table section`>>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|xref:jdbc-offset-table-ddl-default[`jdbc.offset.table.ddl.default` (1. Table Structure)]
```

|[[deprecated-jdbc-offset-table-name]]<<deprecated-jdbc-offset-table-name, `offset.storage.jdbc.offset.table.name`>>
|`debezium_offset_storage`
|The name of the table to which the offsets will be stored.

|[[deprecated-jdbc-offset-table-ddl]]<<deprecated-jdbc-offset-table-ddl, `offset.storage.jdbc.offset.table.ddl`>>
|<<jdbc-offset-table-ddl-default, `see table section`>>
|DDL statement to create the offset table.

|[[deprecated-jdbc-offset-table-select]]<<deprecated-jdbc-offset-table-select, `offset.storage.jdbc.offset.table.select`>>
|<<jdbc-offset-table-ddl-default, `see table section`>>
|DML statement to read offsets stored from the table.

|[[deprecated-jdbc-offset-table-insert]]<<deprecated-jdbc-offset-table-insert, `offset.storage.jdbc.offset.table.insert`>>
|<<jdbc-offset-table-select-default, `see table section`>>
|DML statement to write offsets to the table.

|[[deprecated-jdbc-offset-table-delete]]<<deprecated-jdbc-offset-table-delete, `offset.storage.jdbc.offset.table.delete`>>
|<<jdbc-offset-table-insert-default, `see table section`>>
|DML statement to remove offsets from the table.

|===

=== Offset Table defaults

> 

Reviewer: > I like the idea of links but I don't like to have description/text too long in the table. Maybe I prefer to don't use the brackets

So, originally you had a link that went to the top-level item in the tables, which I changed, so that the links went directly to the named properties, but I did not remove the numbered text, moving it within the parentheses/brackets. When you say you might prefer not to use the brackets, I interpret that to mean one of the following:

- Keep the revised links that directly target the named properties, but use only the property names as the link text, and remove the text in parentheses (1. Table structure, and so forth)?
- Keep the revised links, and use the numbered items as the link text (No parentheses), and do not list the property names?

Or something else?

> 

Reviewer 2: > Keep the revised links that directly target the named properties, but use only the property names as the link text, and remove the text in parentheses (1. Table structure, and so forth)?

Yes, I like to keep the revised links that directly target the named properties, but I am not sure (and I don't have a strong opinion/idea) for the text (which I prefer without numbered items even if I proposed it :eyes: ).  WDYT?

[[jdbc-offset-table-ddl-default]]<<jdbc-offset-table-ddl-default, 1. Table Structure>>
[SQL]
----
CREATE TABLE %s (
id VARCHAR(36)      NOT NULL,
offset_key          VARCHAR(1255),
offset_val          VARCHAR(1255),
record_insert_ts    TIMESTAMP NOT NULL,
record_insert_seq   INTEGER NOT NULL)
----

[[jdbc-offset-table-select-default]]<<jdbc-offset-table-select-default, 2. Select query>>
[SQL]
----
SELECT id, offset_key, offset_val FROM %s ORDER BY record_insert_ts, record_insert_seq
----

[[jdbc-offset-table-insert-default]]<<jdbc-offset-table-insert-default, 3. Insert query>>
[SQL]
----
INSERT INTO %s(id, offset_key, offset_val, record_insert_ts, record_insert_seq)
    VALUES ( ?, ?, ?, ?, ? )
----

[[jdbc-offset-table-delete-default]]<<jdbc-offset-table-delete-default, 4. Delete query>>
[SQL]
----
DELETE FROM %s
----

=== Internal schema history store

[cols="35%a,10%a,55%a",options="header"]
|===
|Property
|Default
|Description

|[[jdbc-history-type]]<<jdbc-history-type, `schema.history.internal`>>
|No default
|Must be set to `io.debezium.storage.jdbc.history.JdbcSchemaHistory`.

> 

Reviewer: If this and similar properties have required values, can they be coded to carry the appropriate defaults?

|[[jdbc-history-schema-history-url]]<<jdbc-history-schema-history-url, `schema.history.internal.jdbc.connection.url`>>
|No default
|JDBC driver connection string to connect to the database.

|[[jdbc-history-schema-history-user]]<<jdbc-history-schema-history-user, `schema.history.internal.jdbc.connection.user`>>
|No default
|(Optional) Username of the database which will be used to access the database storage.

|[[jdbc-history-schema-history-password]]<<jdbc-history-schema-history-password, `schema.history.internal.jdbc.connection.password`>>
|No default

> |(Optional) Password of the database which will be used to access the database storage.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|(Optional)  Password for the user specified by xref:jdbc-history-schema-history-user[`schema.history.internal.jdbc.connection.user`].
```

|[[jdbc-history-wait-retry-delay-ms]]<<jdbc-history-wait-retry-delay-ms, `schema.history.internal.jdbc.connection.retry.delay.ms`>>
|3 seconds

> |(Optional) Delay of retry on wait for connection failure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|(Optional) Specifies the time, in milliseconds, that the connector waits to retry the connection after an attempt to connect to the internal schema history database fails.
```

|[[jdbc-history-retry-max-attempts]]<<jdbc-history-retry-max-attempts, `schema.history.internal.jdbc.connection.retry.max.attempts`>>
|5

> |(Optional) Maximum number of retry attempts before giving up.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|(Optional) Specifies the maximum number of times that {prodname} retries the connection to the internal schema history database after a connection failure.
```

|[[jdbc-history-schema-history-table-name]]<<jdbc-history-schema-history-table-name, `schema.history.internal.jdbc.table.name`>>
|`debezium_database_history`

> |The name of the table to which the history will be stored.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|The name of the table where {prodname} store the internal schema history.
```

|[[jdbc-history-schema-history-table-select]]<<jdbc-history-schema-history-table-select, `schema.history.internal.jdbc.table.select`>>
|<<jdbc-history-schema-history-table-select-default, `see table section`>>
|The `SELECT` statement to read the internal schema history form the table.

|[[jdbc-history-schema-history-table-exists-select]]<<jdbc-history-schema-history-table-exists-select, `schema.history.internal.jdbc.table.exists.select`>>
|<<jdbc-history-schema-history-table-exists-select-default, `see table section`>>
|The `SELECT` statement to check the existence of the storage table.

|[[jdbc-history-schema-history-table-insert]]<<jdbc-history-schema-history-table-insert, `schema.history.internal.jdbc.table.insert`>>
|<<jdbc-history-schema-history-table-insert-default, `see table section`>>
|The `INSERT` statement to record the schema history to the table.

|===

==== Deprecated configuration prior to 3.2

[cols="35%a,10%a,55%a",options="header"]
|===
|Property
|Default
|Description

|[[deprecated-jdbc-history-type]]<<deprecated-jdbc-history-type, `schema.history.internal`>>
|No default
|Must be set to `io.debezium.storage.jdbc.history.JdbcSchemaHistory`.

> 

Reviewer: If this and similar properties have required values, can they be coded to carry the appropriate defaults?

|[[deprecated-jdbc-history-schema-history-url]]<<deprecated-jdbc-history-schema-history-url, `schema.history.internal.jdbc.url`>>
|No default
|JDBC driver connection string to connect to the database.

|[[deprecated-jdbc-history-schema-history-user]]<<deprecated-jdbc-history-schema-history-user, `schema.history.internal.jdbc.user`>>
|No default

> |(Optional) Username of the database which will be used to access the database storage.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|(Optional)  The username through which {prodname} connects to the database that stores internal schema history data.
```

----
CREATE TABLE %s (
    id VARCHAR(36) NOT NULL,
    history_data VARCHAR(65000),
    history_data_seq INTEGER,
    record_insert_ts TIMESTAMP NOT NULL,
    record_insert_seq INTEGER NOT NULL
)
----

[[jdbc-history-schema-history-table-select-default]]<<jdbc-history-schema-history-table-select-default,2. Select Query>>
[SQL]
----
SELECT id, history_data, history_data_seq FROM %s
    ORDER BY record_insert_ts, record_insert_seq, id, history_data_seq
----

[[jdbc-history-schema-history-table-exists-select-default]]<<jdbc-history-schema-history-table-exists-select-default,4. Data exist Query>>
[SQL]
----
SELECT * FROM %s LIMIT 1
----

[[jdbc-history-schema-history-table-insert-default]]<<jdbc-history-schema-history-table-insert-default,4. Insert Query>>
[SQL]
----
INSERT INTO %s(id, history_data, history_data_seq, record_insert_ts, record_insert_seq) VALUES ( ?, ?, ?, ?, ? )
----

== Redis

The store uses Redis cache to store the data using https://redis.io/docs/latest/develop/clients/jedis/[Jedis client].

=== Offset Store

[cols="35%a,10%a,55%a",options="header"]
|===
|Property
|Default
|Description

|[[offset-storage-redis]]<<offset-storage-redis, `offset.storage`>>
|No default

> |Must be set to `io.debezium.storage.redis.offset.RedisOffsetBackingStore`

Reviewer: If this and similar properties have required values, can they be coded to carry the appropriate defaults?

|10
|Maximum number of retry attempts before giving up.
|[[offset-storage-redis-wait-enabled]]<<offset-storage-redis-wait-enabled,`offset.storage.redis.wait.enabled`>>
|false
|Enables wait for replica. In case Redis is configured with a replica shard, this allows to verify that the data has been written to the replica.
|[[offset-storage-redis-wait-timeout-ms]]<<offset-storage-redis-wait-timeout-ms,`offset.storage.redis.wait.timeout.ms`>>
|1000
|Timeout when wait for replica.
|[[offset-storage-redis-wait-retry-enabled]]<<offset-storage-redis-wait-retry-enabled, `offset.storage.redis.wait.retry.enabled`>>
|false
|Enables retry on wait for replica failure.
|[[offset-storage-redis-wait-retry-delay-ms]]<<offset-storage-redis-wait-retry-delay-ms, `offset.storage.redis.wait.retry.delay.ms`>>
|1000
|Delay of retry on wait for replica failure.

|===

=== Internal schema history store

[cols="35%a,10%a,55%a",options="header"]
|===
|Property
|Default
|Description

|[[schema-history-internal-redis]]<<schema-history-internal-redis, `schema.history.internal`>>
|No default

> |Must be set to `io.debezium.storage.redis.history.RedisSchemaHistory`

Reviewer: If this and similar properties have required values, can they be coded to carry the appropriate defaults?

|false
|Enables wait for replica. In case Redis is configured with a replica shard, this allows to verify that the data has been written to the replica.
|[[schema-history-internal-redis-wait-timeout-ms]]<<schema-history-internal-redis-wait-timeout-ms,`schema.history.internal.storage.redis.wait.timeout.ms`>>
|1000
|Timeout when wait for replica.
|[[schema-history-internal-redis-wait-retry-enabled]]<<schema-history-internal-redis-wait-retry-enabled, `schema.history.internal.storage.redis.wait.retry.enabled`>>
|false
|Enables retry on wait for replica failure.
|[[schema-history-internal-redis-wait-retry-delay-ms]]<<schema-history-internal-redis-wait-retry-delay-ms, `schema.history.internal.storage.redis.wait.retry.delay.ms`>>
|1000
|Delay of retry on wait for replica failure.

|===

== Amazon S3
The store uses link:https://aws.amazon.com/s3/[Amazon S3] object storage service.
It is typically used when Debezium is deployed in link:https://aws.amazon.com/msk/[Amazon Managed Streaming] service.

=== Internal schema history store

[cols="35%a,10%a,55%a",options="header"]
|===
|Property
|Default
|Description

|[[s3-history-type]]<<s3-history-type, `schema.history.internal`>>
|No default

> |Must be set to `io.debezium.storage.s3.history.S3SchemaHistory`.

Reviewer: If this and similar properties have required values, can they be coded to carry the appropriate defaults?

|[[s3-history-region-name]]<<s3-history-region-name, `schema.history.internal.s3.region.name`>>
|No default
|(Optional) A region name in which the S3 service is provided.

|[[s3-history-bucket-name]]<<s3-history-bucket-name, `schema.history.internal.s3.bucket.name`>>
|No default
|A name of the bucket used to store the schema history.

|[[s3-history-object-name]]<<s3-history-object-name, `schema.history.internal.s3.object.name`>>
|No default
|A name of the key under which the schema history is stored.

|[[s3-history-endpoint]]<<s3-history-endpoint, `schema.history.internal.s3.endpoint`>>
|No default
|(Optional) A custom URL used to access S3 service.

|===

== Azure Blob Storage

The store uses link:https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/products/storage/blobs[Azure Blob] storage service.
It is typically used when Debezium is deployed in link:https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/hdinsight/kafka/apache-kafka-introduction[Apache Kafka in Azure HDInsight] service.

=== Internal schema history store

[cols="35%a,10%a,55%a",options="header"]
|===
|Property
|Default
|Description

|[[schema-history-internal-azure]]<<schema-history-internal-azure, `schema.history.internal`>>
|No default

> |Must be set to `io.debezium.storage.azure.blob.history.AzureBlobSchemaHistory`.

Reviewer: If this and similar properties have required values, can they be coded to carry the appropriate defaults?

|No default
|The Storage connection string to Azure blob storage
|[[schema-history-internal-azure-storage-account-name]]<<schema-history-internal-azure-storage-account-name,`schema.history.internal.azure.storage.account.name`>>
|No default
|The account name
|[[schema-history-internal-azure-storage-account-container-name]]<<schema-history-internal-azure-storage-account-container-name,`schema.history.internal.azure.storage.account.container.name`>>
|No default
|The container name
|[[schema-history-internal-azure-storage-blob-name]]<<schema-history-internal-azure-storage-blob-name,`schema.history.internal.azure.storage.blob.name`>>
|No default
|The blob name

|===

== RocketMQ

Debezium supports storing schema history in Apache RocketMQ by utilizing the `RocketMqSchemaHistory` class. This integration allows Debezium to persist and retrieve database schema changes using RocketMQ as the storage medium.

=== Internal schema history store

[cols="35%a,10%a,55%a",options="header"]
|===
|Property
|Default
|Description

|[[schema-history-internal-rochetmq]]<<schema-history-internal-rochetmq, `schema.history.internal`>>
|No default

> |Must be set to `io.debezium.storage.rocketmq.history.RocketMqSchemaHistory`.

Reviewer: If this and similar properties have required values, can they be coded to carry the appropriate defaults?

This value must match the connection settings that the Kafka Connect process uses to connect to the Kafka cluster.

|[[schema-history-internal-kafka-recovery-poll-interval-ms]]<<schema-history-internal-kafka-recovery-poll-interval-ms,`schema.history.internal.kafka.recovery.poll.interval.ms`>>
|100
|Specifies the time, in milliseconds, that the connector waits between polling requests for persisted data during recovery.

|[[schema-history-internal-kafka-recovery-attempts]]<<schema-history-internal-kafka-recovery-attempts,`schema.history.internal.kafka.recovery.attempts`>>
|100
|Specifies the number of consecutive unsuccessful attempts to retrieve schema history data from Kafka that the connector allows.
Recovery attempts stop after the number of attempts exceeds this value. 
The maximum time that the connector waits after it is unable to retrieve data is `recovery.attempts` x `recovery.poll.interval.ms`.

|[[schema-history-internal-kafka-query-timeout-ms]]<<schema-history-internal-kafka-query-timeout-ms,`schema.history.internal.kafka.query.timeout.ms`>>
|3

> |Specifies the time, in milliseconds, that the connector waits for a response after the Kafka AdminClient submits a request to fetch cluster information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Specifies the time, in milliseconds, that the connector waits for a response after the Kafka AdminClient submits a request to fetch cluster information before the request times out.
```

|[[schema-history-internal-kafka-create-timeout-ms]]<<schema-history-internal-kafka-create-timeout-ms,`schema.history.internal.kafka.create.timeout.ms`>>
|30

> |Specifies the time, in milliseconds, that the connector waits for a response after the Kafka AdminClient submits a request to create a Kafka history topic.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Specifies the time, in milliseconds, that the connector waits for a response after the Kafka AdminClient submits a request to create a Kafka history topic before the request times out.
```

|[[deprecated-jdbc-offset-user]]<<deprecated-jdbc-offset-user, `offset.storage.jdbc.user`>>
|No default
|(Optional) The username through which {prodname} connects to the database that stores offset data.

|[[deprecated-jdbc-offset-password]]<<deprecated-jdbc-offset-password, `offset.storage.jdbc.password`>>
|No default
|(Optional) Password for the user specified by xref:deprecated-jdbc-offset-user[`offset.storage.jdbc.user`].

|[[deprecated-wait-retry-delay-ms]]<<deprecated-wait-retry-delay-ms, `offset.storage.jdbc.wait.retry.delay.ms`>>
|3 seconds
|(Optional) Specifies the time, in milliseconds, that the connector waits to retry the connection after failed attempts to connect to the offset storage database.

|[[deprecated-retry-max-attempts]]<<deprecated-retry-max-attempts, `offset.storage.jdbc.retry.max.attempts`>>
|5
|(Optional) Specifies the maximum number of times that {prodname} retries the connection to the offset storage database after a connection failure.

|[[deprecated-jdbc-offset-table-name]]<<deprecated-jdbc-offset-table-name, `offset.storage.jdbc.offset.table.name`>>
|`debezium_offset_storage`
|The name of the table where {prodname} stores offsets.

> 

Reviewer: I modified the targets for the remaining links in this table to match the values in the link text. Check that I've targeted the correct property names.

|[[deprecated-jdbc-offset-table-ddl]]<<deprecated-jdbc-offset-table-ddl, `offset.storage.jdbc.offset.table.ddl`>>
|xref:jdbc-offset-table-ddl-default[`offset.table.ddl.default` (Table Structure)]
|DDL statement to create the offset table.

|[[deprecated-jdbc-offset-table-select]]<<deprecated-jdbc-offset-table-select, `offset.storage.jdbc.offset.table.select`>>
|xref:jdbc-offset-table-select-default[`offset.table.select.default` (Select query)]
|DML statement to read offsets stored from the table.

|[[deprecated-jdbc-offset-table-insert]]<<deprecated-jdbc-offset-table-insert, `offset.storage.offset.table.insert`>>
|xref:jdbc-offset-table-insert-default[`offset.table.insert.default` (Insert query)]
|DML statement to write offsets to the table.

|[[deprecated-jdbc-offset-table-delete]]<<deprecated-jdbc-offset-table-delete, `offset.storage.jdbc.offset.table.delete`>>
|xref:jdbc-offset-table-delete-default[`offset.table.delete.default` (Delete query)]
|DML statement to remove offsets from the table.

|===

=== Offset Table defaults

> [[jdbc-offset-table-ddl-default]]<<jdbc-offset-table-ddl-default,(Table Structure)>>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[[jdbc-offset-table-ddl-default]]<<jdbc-offset-table-ddl-default, `offset.table.ddl.default `(Table Structure)>>
```

Reviewer 2: ok, sorry maybe I get your confusion `offset.table.ddl.default` are not properties available in debezium,  I used it only to link to the default. 

In order to be on the same page: for example the `offset.storage.jdbc.offset.table.ddl` has default:

```sql
CREATE TABLE %s (
id VARCHAR(36)      NOT NULL,
offset_key          VARCHAR(1255),
offset_val          VARCHAR(1255),
record_insert_ts    TIMESTAMP NOT NULL,
record_insert_seq   INTEGER NOT NULL)
```

This text is too big to be available in the second column of the table (*Default*). So write down as **text** something like `offset.table.ddl.default` or `*.select.default` doesn't have an effect into debezium configuration.

So actually it's ok to me the links between defaults but the text I think can make some confusion. 
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/8016573d-90bc-41c4-8ad2-00f177f81355)

My initial proposal was like `see table section` which was misleading because there wasn't any table section. Maybe the correct text could be something like:

- `create query` - `select query` and so on.

![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/be515f59-9900-4b0c-98e9-9f5de49444d7)

WDYT @roldanbob ?

Reviewer: Yes, I think that is a reasonable solution, @kmos!

[SQL]
----
CREATE TABLE %s (
id VARCHAR(36)      NOT NULL,
offset_key          VARCHAR(1255),
offset_val          VARCHAR(1255),
record_insert_ts    TIMESTAMP NOT NULL,
record_insert_seq   INTEGER NOT NULL)
----

> [[jdbc-offset-table-select-default]]<<jdbc-offset-table-select-default,(Select query)>>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[[jdbc-offset-table-select-default]]<<jdbc-offset-table-select-default,`jdbc.offset.table.select.default` (Select query)>>
```

[SQL]
----
SELECT id, offset_key, offset_val FROM %s ORDER BY record_insert_ts, record_insert_seq
----

> [[jdbc-offset-table-insert-default]]<<jdbc-offset-table-insert-default,(Insert query)>>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[[jdbc-offset-table-insert-default]]<<jdbc-offset-table-insert-default,`jdbc.offset.table.insert.default` (Insert query)>>
```

[SQL]
----
INSERT INTO %s(id, offset_key, offset_val, record_insert_ts, record_insert_seq)
    VALUES ( ?, ?, ?, ?, ? )
----

> [[jdbc-offset-table-delete-default]]<<jdbc-offset-table-delete-default,(Delete query)>>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[[jdbc-offset-table-delete-default]]<<jdbc-offset-table-delete-default,`jdbc.offset.table.delete.default` (Delete query)>>
```

|The name of the topic for the database schema history.
|[[schema-history-internal-rocketmq-name-srv-addr]]<<schema-history-internal-rocketmq-name-srv-addr,`schema.history.internal.rocketmq.name.srv.addr`>>
|No Default
|RocketMQ service discovery service nameserver address configuration.
|[[schema-history-internal-rocketmq-acl-enabled]]<<schema-history-internal-rocketmq-acl-enabled,`schema.history.internal.rocketmq.acl.enabled`>>
|false
|RocketMQ access control enable configuration.
|[[schema-history-internal-rocketmq-access-key]]<<schema-history-internal-rocketmq-access-key,`schema.history.internal.rocketmq.access.key`>>
|No Default
|RocketMQ access key. If  `schema.history.internal.rocketmq.acl.enabled` is true, the value cannot be empty.
|[[schema-history-internal-rocketmq-secret-key]]<<schema-history-internal-rocketmq-secret-key,`schema.history.internal.rocketmq.secret.key`>>
|No Default
|RocketMQ secret key. If  `schema.history.internal.rocketmq.acl.enabled`  is true, the value cannot be empty.
|[[schema-history-internal-rocketmq-recovery-attempts]]<<schema-history-internal-rocketmq-recovery-attempts,`schema.history.internal.rocketmq.recovery.attempts`>>
|No Default

> |The number of attempts in a row that no data are returned from RocketMQ before recover.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Specifies the number of consecutive attempts in which RocketMQ returns no data before recovery completes.

```

|[[schema-history-internal-rocketmq-recovery-poll-interval-ms]]<<schema-history-internal-rocketmq-recovery-poll-interval-ms,`schema.history.internal.rocketmq.recovery.poll.interval.ms`>>
|No Default

> |The number of milliseconds to wait while polling for persisted data during recovery.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Specifies the time, in milliseconds, that {prodname} waits after each poll attempt to recover the history.

```

|[[schema-history-internal-rocketmq-store-record-timeout.ms]]<<schema-history-internal-rocketmq-store-record-timeout.ms,`schema.history.internal.rocketmq.store.record.timeout.ms`>>
|No Default

> |Timeout for sending messages to RocketMQ.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Specifies the time, in milliseconds, that {prodname} waits for a write to Rocket MQ to complete before the operation times out.
```

|100
|The number of attempts in a row that no data are returned from Kafka before recover completes. The maximum amount of time to wait after receiving no data is (recovery.attempts) x (recovery.poll.interval.ms).

|[[schema-history-internal-kafka-query-timeout-ms]]<<schema-history-internal-kafka-query-timeout-ms,`schema.history.internal.kafka.query.timeout.ms`>>
|3
|The number of milliseconds to wait while fetching cluster information using Kafka admin client.

|[[schema-history-internal-kafka-create-timeout-ms]]<<schema-history-internal-kafka-create-timeout-ms,`schema.history.internal.kafka.create.timeout.ms`>>
|30
|The number of milliseconds to wait while create kafka history topic using Kafka admin client.

|[[schema-history-internal-producer]]<<schema-history-internal-producer,`schema.history.internal.producer.*`>>
|No Default
|Pass-through properties prefix for configuring how producer client interact with schema history topics.

|[[schema-history-internal-consumer]]<<schema-history-internal-consumer,`schema.history.internal.consumer.*`>>
|No Default
|Pass-through properties prefix for configuring how consumer client interact with schema history topics.

> |[[schema-history-internal-tbd-security-protocol]]<<schema-history-internal-tbd-security-protocol,`schema.history.internal.*.security.protocol`>>

Author: @kmos I am sorry for being unclear, I intended to have `schema.history.internal.consumer.*` and `schema.history.internal.producer.*` only. There is no need for the finer settings as it will be always subset of Kafka client documentation.

[id="storing-debezium-state"]
= Storing state of a {prodname} connector
ifdef::community[]
:toc:
:toc-placement: macro
:linkattrs:
:icons: font
:source-highlighter: highlight.js

toc::[]

== Overview
endif::community[]

{prodname} connectors require persistent storage to preserve their state between restarts.
All connectors require a mechanism to provide persistent storage for the offsets.

> In addition, connectors such as Db2, MySQL, Oracle,  and SQL Server, require additional storage, the so-called internal schema history, to record their schema evolution history.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In addition, connectors such as Db2, MySQL, Oracle,  and SQL Server, require additional storage for their so-called internal schema history, which records changes to table schema in the database.
```

Offset storage is provided automatically for deployments within the Kafka Connect runtime through one of the following mechanisms:

> * Kafka offset store for Kafka Connect distributed
> * File offset store for Kafka Connect standalone

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[horizontal]
Kafka offset store:: Provides storage for Kafka Connect distributed.
File offset store:: Provides storage for Kafka Connect standalone.
```

If you run a connector in xref:development/engine.adoc[{prodname} Engine] or xref:operations/debezium-server.adoc[{prodname} Server], you must explicitly configure the offset store.

> In all deployments, you use connector properties to configure internal schema history storage.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For connectors that work with schema-based databases, you configure internal schema history storage by setting connector properties.
```

Offset records are lost if the connector shuts down or crashes. 
Memory storage is ideal for testing, or for short-lived tasks, but it is not suitable for production environments that require persistent offsets.

=== Offset Store

[cols="35%a,10%a,55%a",options="header"]
|===
|Property
|Default
|Description

|[[offset-storage-memory]]<<offset-storage-memory,`offset.storage`>>
|No default
|Must be set to `org.apache.kafka.connect.storage.MemoryOffsetBackingStore`

|===

=== Internal schema history store

[cols="35%a,10%a,55%a",options="header"]
|===
|Property
|Default
|Description

|[[schema-history-internal-memory]]<<schema-history-internal-memory,`schema.history.internal`>>
|No default
|Must be set to `io.debezium.relational.history.MemorySchemaHistory`

|===

== JDBC
The store uses an arbitrary relational database to store the offset data.
You must provide the link:https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/JDBC_driver[JDBC driver] for the database.
{prodname} can store data in the same source database from which it captures events, or you can configure it to use a different database.

{prodname} provides pre-configured DML and DDL statements.

> You can use the default statements, or you can override the defaults with your own statements to provide compatibility with database dialects or to customize them for specific use cases.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use these default statements, or you can override the defaults with your own statements to provide compatibility with database dialects or to customize them for specific use cases.
```

|No default
|The user account through which {prodname} connects to Redis to store offset data.

|[[offset-storage-redis-password]]<<offset-storage-redis-password, `offset.storage.redis.password`>>
|No default
|The password for the user account through which {prodname} connects to Redis to store offset data.

|[[offset-storage-redis-db-index]]<<offset-storage-redis-db-index, `offset.storage.redis.db.index`>>
|0
|The database index (0..15) that {prodname} uses to access Redis to store offset data..

|[[offset-storage-redis-ssl-enabled]]<<offset-storage-redis-ssl-enabled,`offset.storage.redis.ssl.enabled`>>
|false
|Specifies whether {prodname} uses SSL when communicating with Redis to store offset data.

|[[offset-storage-redis-connection-timeout-ms]]<<offset-storage-redis-connection-timeout-ms, `offset.storage.redis.connection.timeout.ms`>>
|2000
|Specifies the time, in milliseconds, that {prodname} waits to establish a connection to Redis before the connection times out.

|[[offset-storage-redis-socket-timeout-ms]]<<offset-storage-redis-socket-timeout-ms, `offset.storage.redis.socket.timeout.ms`>>
|2000

> |Specifies the interval, in milliseconds, that {prodname} allows for exchanging offset data with Redis before the socket times out..

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Specifies the interval, in milliseconds, that {prodname} allows for exchanging offset data with Redis before the socket times out.
```

|[[schema-history-internal-redis-retry-max-delay-ms]]<<schema-history-internal-redis-retry-max-delay-ms, `schema.history.internal.storage.redis.retry.max.delay.ms`>>
|10000
|Specifies the maximum time, in milliseconds, that {prodname} waits to retry the connection after an attempt to connect to Redis fails.

|[[schema-history-internal-redis-retry-max-attempts]]<<schema-history-internal-redis-retry-max-attempts, `schema.history.internal.storage.redis.retry.max.attempts`>>
|10
Specifies the maximum number of times that {prodname} retries the connection to Redis after connection attempts fail.

|[[schema-history-internal-redis-wait-enabled]]<<schema-history-internal-redis-wait-enabled,`schema.history.internal.storage.redis.wait.enabled`>>
|false
|In Redis environments that are configured to use a replica shard, specifies whether {prodname} waits for Redis to verify that it wrote data to the replica.

|[[schema-history-internal-redis-wait-timeout-ms]]<<schema-history-internal-redis-wait-timeout-ms,`schema.history.internal.storage.redis.wait.timeout.ms`>>
|1000

> |Specifies a time, in milliseconds, that {prodname} waits for confirmation that Redis wrote data to a replica shard before the request times out.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Specifies the time, in milliseconds, that {prodname} waits for confirmation that Redis wrote data to a replica shard before the request times out.
```

|[[schema-history-internal-redis-wait-retry-enabled]]<<schema-history-internal-redis-wait-retry-enabled, `schema.history.internal.storage.redis.wait.retry.enabled`>>
|false
|Specifies whether {prodname} retries failed requests to confirm whether data is written to a replica shard.

|[[schema-history-internal-redis-wait-retry-delay-ms]]<<schema-history-internal-redis-wait-retry-delay-ms, `schema.history.internal.storage.redis.wait.retry.delay.ms`>>
|1000
|Specifies the time, in milliseconds, that {prodname} waits after a failure before it resubmits a request to Redis to confirm data is written to a replica shard.

|===

== Amazon S3

> {prodname} can use link:https://aws.amazon.com/s3/[Amazon S3] object storage service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{prodname} can use the link:https://aws.amazon.com/s3/[Amazon S3] object storage service.
```

|No default
|Must be set to `io.debezium.storage.azure.blob.history.AzureBlobSchemaHistory`.
|[[schema-history-internal-azure-storage-account-connectionstring]]<<schema-history-internal-azure-storage-account-connectionstring,`schema.history.internal.azure.storage.account.connectionstring`>>
|No default
|Specifies the Azure Blob storage connection string.

|[[schema-history-internal-azure-storage-account-name]]<<schema-history-internal-azure-storage-account-name,`schema.history.internal.azure.storage.account.name`>>
|No default
|The name of the account that {prodname} uses to connect to Azure.

|[[schema-history-internal-azure-storage-account-container-name]]<<schema-history-internal-azure-storage-account-container-name,`schema.history.internal.azure.storage.account.container.name`>>
|No default
|The name of the Azure container in which {prodname} stores data. 

|[[schema-history-internal-azure-storage-blob-name]]<<schema-history-internal-azure-storage-blob-name,`schema.history.internal.azure.storage.blob.name`>>
|No default
|The name of the blob where {prodname} stores data.

|===

== RocketMQ

> Debezium can use the `RocketMqSchemaHistory` class to store and retrieve database schema changes in Apache RocketMQ.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{prodname} can use the `RocketMqSchemaHistory` class to store and retrieve database schema changes in Apache RocketMQ.
```
